Update the DO lifecycle and pricing docs to be clearer about idle hibernateable state (#24132)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/durable-objects/concepts/durable-object-lifecycle.mdx

pcx_content_type: concept
sidebar:
  order: 3
---

import { Render, TypeScriptExample } from "~/components";

This section describes the lifecycle of a [Durable Object](/durable-objects/concepts/what-are-durable-objects/).

To use a Durable Object you need to create a [Durable Object Stub](/durable-objects/api/stub/).

> By just creating the Durable Object Stub no request is yet sent to the Durable Object, thus the Durable Object is not yet instantiated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simply creating the Durable Object Stub does not send a request to the Durable Object, and therefore the Durable Object is not yet instantiated.
```

> Only once a method is invoked on the Durable Object Stub a request is actually sent to the Durable Object and its lifecycle begins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A request is sent to the Durable Object and its lifecycle begins only once a method is invoked on the Durable Object Stub.
```

> ```javascript

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```js
````

If it continuously receives requests or events within 10 seconds of each other, the Durable Object will remain in this state.

Once all incoming requests or events have been processed, the Durable Object remains idle in-memory for a few seconds either in a hibernateable state or in a non-hibernateable state.

Hibernation can only occur if **all** of the conditions below are true:

- No `setTimeout`/`setInterval` scheduled callbacks are set, since there would be no way to recreate the callback after hibernating.
- No in-progress awaited `fetch()` exists, since it is considered to be waiting for I/O.
- No WebSocket standard API is used.
- No request/event is still being processed, because hibernating would mean losing track of the async function which is eventually supposed to return a response to that request.

> After 10 seconds of no incoming request or event and all the above conditions satisfied, the Durable Object will transition into the **hibernated** state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After 10 seconds of no incoming request or event, and all the above conditions satisfied, the Durable Object will transition into the **hibernated** state.
```

:::caution
When hibernated, the in-memory state is discarded, so ensure you persist all important information in the Durable Object's storage.
:::

If any of the above conditions is false, the Durable Object remains in-memory, in the **idle, in-memory, non-hibernateable** state.

In case of an incoming request or event while in the **hibernated** state, the `constructor()` will run again, and the Durable Object will transition to the **active, in-memory** state and execute the invoked function.

While in the **idle, in-memory, non-hibernateable** state, after 70-140 seconds of inactivity (no incoming requests or events), the Durable Object will be evicted entirely from memory and potentially from the Cloudflare host and transition to the **inactive** state.

Objects in the **hibernated** state keep their Websocket clients connected, and the runtime decides if and when to transition the object to the **inactive** state (for example deciding to move the object to a different host) thus restarting the lifecycle.

The next incoming request or event starts the cycle again.

:::note[Lifecycle states incurring duration charges]

> A Durable Object incurs charges only when it is **actively running in-memory**, or when it is **idle in-memory and non-hibernateable**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Durable Object incurs charges only when it is **actively running in-memory**, or when it is **idle in-memory and non-hibernateable** (indicated as green rectangles in the diagram).
```
